---
layout: post-with-tags
title:  "Veggie Bibimbap"
date:   2017-02-27 14:40:43 -0800S
tags: [vegetarian, hard]
cooking_time: "more than 1 hour"
---

This recipe is my notes from [Maangchi's Bibimbap video on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6QQ67F8y2b8). 

Before you do anything, throw a cup and a half of rice in your rice cooker or pressure cooker. (Follow this post on how to [pressure cook brown rice]({% post_url 2017-02-27-brown-rice-pressure-cooker-method %}) in 15 minutes.) 

Ingredients:

* Toasted sesame seeds
* 3-4 cloves garlic minced
* Cooking oil
* Toasted sesame oil for seasoning
* Salt for seasoning<sup>1</sup>
* 1 bunch spinach well rinsed (you can substitute baby spinach to save time cleaning)
* 1 lb bean sprouts
* 1 red bell pepper
* 1 carrot
* 1 large zucchini
* 2 green onions
* 1 large cucumber
* 3-4 eggs
* Gochu Jang
* Optional: cast iron pot for crisping rice and serving

Recipe at a glance:

* Blanch spinach, strain, chop, and season with salt, fresh garlic, toasted sesame oil, and toasted sesame seeds.
* Boil bean sprouts for 20 minutes, strain, and season with salt, fresh garlic, and toasted sesame oil.
* Chop and sauté red pepper in cooking oil (30 sec), add salt.
* Chop and pre-salt<sup>2</sup> carrot, strain, and sauté in cooking oil.
* Chop and pre-salt zucchini, strain, sauté with garlic and green onion in cooking oil, and season with sesame oil.
* Chop and pre-salt cucumber, strain, and sauté with garlic in cooking oil, and season with sesame oil.
* Add toasted sesame oil to cast iron pot (or special Korean stone bowls if you have them), spoon in cooked rice, add vegetables, and cook over medium heat for a few minutes after rice starts crackling
* Fry a few eggs and serve on top
* At the table, mix up the Bibimbap, and serve with Gochu Jang 

Vegetable prep work:

* Prepare the red bell pepper:
    * Slice off top and bottom (snack on those), remove seeds, and slice into match sticks.
* Prepare the carrot: 
    * Peel carrot.
    * Slice thinly at an angle and then push the slices together and slice them into match sticks.
* Prepare the zucchini:
    * Scrape off the wax and any blemishes with a serrated knife (no need to peel). 
    * Slice into round pieces and then push the round pieces together to slice them into match sticks. 
* Prepare the cucumber:
    * Cut in half lengthwise, and slice into half moons.

1. Almost everything is salted, but that doesn't mean the dish is very salty. Just sprinkle lightly each time you salt something.
2. I'm using the phrase "pre-salt" to indicate that you salt the vegetable after chopping it, which draws out the water as you let it stand. Then you pour off excess liquid. 

